Benefits for different stakeholders.
Sharing well-managed research data provides significant benefits across the research ecosystem,
with specific advantages for researchers, publishers, and funders.
For researchers, data sharing increases.
Efficiency
It reduces duplication of effort and makes it easier to build on existing work.
Ease of resharing
There is availability for all lab members and community.
Collaboration
Data sets become a foundation for new partnerships and interdisciplinary projects.
Finally, reproducibility.
While documented data allows others to validate findings and reinforce the integrity of scientific outputs.
For publishers, open data contributes to.
RIGER
By requiring that data be shared, publishers help ensure that research is based on transparent and verifiable evidence.
Validation
Shared data allows reviewers and readers to assess the credibility of the work.
Open science
This supports a broader cultural shift toward accessible and transparent research practices.
Also, for funders, data sharing enhances.
Transparency
Public access to data demonstrates how research funds are being used.
Accountability
Funded researchers are responsible for making their results openly available.
Return on investment
When data are reused and built upon, the impact of the original funding increases significantly.